Update localcluster-deployment.md (#2267)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/pipelines/installation/localcluster-deployment.md

+++
title = "Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines on a local cluster"
description = "How to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines locally with kind, K3s, and K3ai for testing purposes"
weight = 30
+++

This guide shows how to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone using:

- kind
- K3s
- K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
- K3ai [*alpha*]

Such deployment methods can be part of your local environment using the supplied
kustomize manifests for test purposes. This guide is an alternative to
[Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines
(KFP)](/docs/started/getting-started/#installing-kubeflow).

## Before you get started

- You should be familiar with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/),
  [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/), and
  [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/).

- You should have a Kubernetes cluster and install kubectl on it to work with

>   Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone.

Reviewer: just realized you should probably remove this line

Author: /fixed and great catch!

+++
title = "Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone on a local cluster environment"

> description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes"

Author: Sounds super good to me I was uncertain of the title was too long maybe
"Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone with kind, k3s, k3s on WSL, and k3ai" ?

> description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes"

Reviewer 2: ```diff
- description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes with kind, k3s, k3s on WSL, and k3ai"
+ description = "How to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines locally with kind, K3s, and K3ai"
```

WDYT

> description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes"

Author: love it!

> description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes"

Reviewer 2: K3s has a capitalized first letter 👍 Let's change "k3s" across the doc to reflect that

> description = "Instructions to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines Standalone to a local cluster for testing purposes"

Author: going to do it now :)!

- kind

> - k3s
> - k3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- K3s
- K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
```

> - k3ai [*alpha*]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- K3ai [*alpha*]
```

   official [Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

## K3ai [*alpha*]

K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install
and configure AI tools and platforms on portable hardware, such as laptops and
edge devices. This enables users to perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow
on a local cluster.

K3ai's main goal is to provide a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and
Kubeflow Pipelines with NVIDIA GPU support and TensorFlow Serving with just one
line. (For Kubeflow and other component support, check [K3ai's
website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.) To
install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following command:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://github.com/kf5i/k3ai/releases/latest/download/install | bash -
```

For more information about K3ai, refer to the
[official documentation](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/).

## Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines

The installation process for Kubeflow Pipelines is the same for all three
environments covered in this guide: kind, K3s, and K3ai.

> **Note**: Process Namespace Sharing (PNS) is not mature in Argo. Go to [Argo
> Executors](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/workflow-executors/) for more
> informations. Please reference "pns executors" in any issue that may arise using
> it.

Reviewer 2: Fixing a typo, refactoring - LMKWYT:

```suggestion
**Note**: Process Namespace Sharing (PNS) is not mature in Argo yet - for more
information go to [Argo
Executors](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/workflow-executors/) and reference
"pns executors" in any issue you may across when using PNS.
```

1. Copy `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` from WSL to `%HOME%.kube\config`.

2. Edit the copied file by changing the server URL from `https://localhost:6443`
   to the IP of the your WSL instance (`ip addr show dev eth0`) (For example,
   `https://192.168.170.170:6443`.)

3. Run kubectl in a Windows terminal. If you don't kubectl installed, follow the
   official [Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

## K3ai [*alpha*]

> K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install

Reviewer: I really like this initiative, thank you for your efforts!

Reviewer: If I understood correctly, K3ai deploys KFP by default, does it?
If it deploys KFP by default, then we need to restructure the doc to make it clearer that k3ai isn't an equivalent of the other ways to install a local k8s. Users can skip installing KFP by themselves.

Reviewer 3: Yes, [k3ai](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/) by default installs the kubeflow pipelines. But the basic idea is to handle different [plugins](https://github.com/kf5i/k3ai-plugins) and options like for example:

```
curl -sfL https://github.com/kf5i/k3ai/releases/latest/download/install | bash -s -- --gpu --plugin_argo
```

So basically the _default_ is:
```
curl -sfL https://github.com/kf5i/k3ai/releases/latest/download/install | bash -s --cpu --pipelines
```

We are working a plugin to install a full kubeflow deploy

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify, at the moment we only install the pipelines, and not kfp.  We are thinking about a kfp plugin! .. working on it :)!

Reviewer 2: > If it deploys KFP by default, then we need to restructure the doc to make it clearer that k3ai isn't an equivalent of the other ways to install a local k8s. Users can skip installing KFP by themselves.

Thanks for reviewing the doc update and all the suggestions @Bobgy. Maybe if we make it even more explicit in the first paragraph that K3ai is an "infrastructure in a box" that installs KFP and a few other things by default, it would be better? WDYT @alfsuse @Gsantomaggio 

For example:

```
K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install
- and configure AI tools and platforms on portable hardware, such as laptops and
- edge devices. This enables users to perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow
on a local cluster.
+ and configure Kubeflow Pipelines alongside other tools by running one command line on
+ portable hardware, such as laptops and edge devices. This enables users to
- perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow on a local cluster.
+ perform quick experimentations on a local cluster.
```

Or shall we say "a few command lines as possible" (less friction) instead of one command line "... or something along those lines?

(I know "install Kubeflow" is coming soon.)

Also, let's refactor this sentence:

```diff
- K3ai's main goal is to provide a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and
+ The user benefits from having a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and
 Kubeflow Pipelines with NVIDIA GPU support and TensorFlow Serving with just one
 line. (For Kubeflow and other component support, check [K3ai's
 website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.) To
```

LMKWYT

Reviewer 2: (My reference to KFP was because of this information: "a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and Kubeflow Pipelines...")

Author: Fixed based on @Bobgy   suggestion.
Around k3ai we are working to find the simplest solution to avoid any installation and complexity to the user so I would suggest (since I need to write the steps based on @Gsantomaggio code) to merge this PR and I'll open another one where we explain how to use k3ai+kfp+pipelines  in a "click" :)

 ..btw it would be great to document how to use k3ai on Google as well it would be super cool!

Reviewer: > the pipelines, and not kfp.

What's the difference?

Author: Oh I think what @Gsantomaggio meant is the sdk kfp. Currently we install pipelines stand-alone (based on Argo) but we are targeting also kubeflow complete and tekton as well.
Because to experiment you also would need the sdk kfp we are implementing a solution to get that installed automatically for the user (i.e. virtual env or a container with Jupiter and the sdk).

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation!

installed, follow the official 
[Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

## k3ai [*Alhpa*]

> K3ai is a lightweight infrastructure in a box specifically built to install and configure AI tools and platforms to quickly experiment over laptops and edge devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install and configure AI tools and platforms on portable hardware, such as laptops and edge devices. This enables users to perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow on a local cluster.
```

- Since "infrastructure in a box" is a DevOps term that may not be too common - again, correct me if I'm wrong, let's put quotation marks around it.
- Let me know what you think about the other changes - I refactored the sentence to make it less complex and improve readability "UX".

> Is main goal is to provide the most simple way to install Kubeflow pipelines without having to worry about setting up requirements and dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
K3ai's main goal is to provide a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and Kubeflow Pipelines with NVIDIA GPU support and TensorFlow Serving with just one line. (For Kubeflow and other component support, check [K3ai's website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.)
```

- I think "simplest" is subjective, but we can use demonstrate that it's simple by showing it takes one line to get it "up and running". LMKWYT
- The K3ai's official docs mention which components are supported, so I added them here.

> To install Kubeflow pipelines with k3ai all is needed is to run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following command:
```

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://github.com/kf5i/k3ai/releases/latest/download/install | bash -
```

>  For more installation options please read the guide at: [https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For more information about K3ai, refer to the [official documentation](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/).
```

- A blank line after the end of the code/command line block.
- Although I think it's OK to use "read", for better a11y maybe it's best to use something else, like "refer to".
- Re: "please", check out this [section](https://developers.google.com/style/tone#politeness-and-use-of-please) in the Google docs style guide.
- I noticed there's currently only one way of installing K3ai - correct me if I'm wrong. So, maybe we can change "for more installation options" to "for more information about K3ai". WDYT? It sort of covers both "more installation options" and "more details".
- Add a full stop at the end of the sentence.

installed, follow the official 
[Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

> ## k3ai [*alpha*]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## K3ai [*alpha*]
```

website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.) To

> install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Since there're two options for CPU and GPU support, let's make this plural:

```suggestion
install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following commands:
```

> CPU Support:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- With CPU-only support:
```

WDYT?

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3ai.in | bash -s -- --cpu --plugin_kfpipelines
```

> GPU Support:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- With GPU support:
```

The installation process for Kubeflow Pipelines is the same for all three
environments covered in this guide: kind, K3s, and K3ai.

**Note**: Process Namespace Sharing (PNS) is not mature in Argo yet - for more
information go to [Argo
Executors](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/workflow-executors/) and reference

> "pns executors" in any issue you may across when using PNS.

Reviewer 2: I missed a word:

```suggestion
"pns executors" in any issue you may come across when using PNS.
```
